DOCS-#3904: Improving Modin README (#3929)
modin-project/modin: README.md

<p align="center">
<a href="https://discuss.modin.org"><img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discourse-forum-purple.svg?logo=discourse&logoColor=white" align="center"></a>
<a href='https://join.slack.com/t/modin-project/shared_invite/zt-yvk5hr3b-f08p_ulbuRWsAfg9rMY3uA'><img src='https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=chat&logo=slack&message=Slack&color=brightgreen' alt='Slack'  align="center"/></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/modin-project/modin"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/modin-project/modin/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" align="center"/></a>

> <a href="https://github.com/modin-project/modin/actions"><img src="https://github.com/modin-project/modin/workflows/master/badge.svg" align="center"></a>

Reviewer: Is it possible to add also link on conda-forge here?

Reviewer 2: We've added links to conda-forge in the installation instructions. If we add an extra badge for conda-forge up in the top section, the badges will span across two lines, which doesn't look as great.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you change the Slack link above to this instead?
https://join.slack.com/t/modin-project/shared_invite/zt-yvk5hr3b-f08p_ulbuRWsAfg9rMY3uA

Author: Yep will change it in both places

### What is Modin?

Modin is a drop-in replacement for [pandas](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas) that scales the 
single-threaded pandas to become multi-threaded, using all of your cores and offering instant speedup 
to your workflows. Modin works especially well on larger datasets, where pandas becomes painfully 
slow or runs out of memory.

> Using modin is as simple as replacing the pandas import:

Reviewer: We can also add here links to eg tutorial notebooks

> Using modin is as simple as replacing the pandas import:

Author: Going to create a new issue for this and do in a separate PR ^

> [out of memory](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/out_of_core.html).

Reviewer 2: Fix broken link

```suggestion
[out of memory](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/why_modin/out_of_core.html).
```

### What is Modin?

Modin is a drop-in replacement for [pandas](https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas). While pandas is
single-threaded, Modin lets you instantly speed up your workflows by scaling pandas so it uses all of your

> cores. Modin works especially well on larger datasets, where pandas becomes painfully slow or runs out of memory.

Reviewer 3: We could probably add a link to our out of core page here.

#### From PyPI

> Modin can be installed with `pip` on Linux, Windows and MacOS:

Reviewer 3: We should correct the links to supported engines below. Either to our docs or external ones.
```
Installing from conda forge using `modin-all` will install Modin and 3 engines: ([Ray](https://github.com/ray-project/ray),
[Dask](https://github.com/dask/dask) and [Omnisci](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/UsingOmnisci/index.html))
```

Author: @YarShev Not sure I understand this comment -- I believe the links are already a part of the README in the conda-forge section but you highlighted the PyPI section here?

Reviewer 3: Yes, the links are already a part of the README in the conda-forge section, I just was not able to leave a comment there. I mean we should replace the link to our OmniSci usage section to this one https://www.omnisci.com/platform/omniscidb because the links to Ray and Dask lead to their own docs. Does that make sense?

#### From conda-forge

> Installing from conda forge using `modin-all` will install Modin and 3 engines: [Ray](https://github.com/ray-project/ray),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing from [conda forge](https://github.com/conda-forge/modin-feedstock) using `modin-all` will install Modin and three engines: [Ray](https://github.com/ray-project/ray),
```

This can also be done within a notebook/interpreter before you import Modin:

```python
import modin.pandas as pd
from modin.config import Engine

Engine.put("ray")  # Modin will use Ray
Engine.put("dask")  # Modin will use Dask 
```

Check [this Modin docs section](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/using_omnisci.html) for Omnisci engine setup.

**Note: You should not change the engine after your first operation with Modin as it will result in undefined behavior.**

> #### Which engine should I use?

Reviewer 2: nit: the bolded `Note` above is almost the same font as this subsection, so it's a bit hard to see.

| `pd.Series`       | <img src=https://img.shields.io/badge/api%20coverage-88.05%25-green.svg> | <img src=https://img.shields.io/badge/api%20coverage-88.05%25-green.svg> |
| `pd.read_csv`     | ✅                                               | ✅ |
| `pd.read_table`   | ✅                                               | ✅ |
| `pd.read_parquet` | ✅                                               | ✅ |
| `pd.read_sql`     | ✅                                               | ✅ |
| `pd.read_feather` | ✅                                               | ✅ |
| `pd.read_excel`   | ✅                                               | ✅ |
| `pd.read_json`    | [✳️](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues/554)                                         | [✳️](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues/554) |
| `pd.read_<other>` | [✴️](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/supported_apis/io_supported.html) | [✴️](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/supported_apis/io_supported.html) |

</p>
Some pandas APIs are easier to implement than others, so if something is missing feel
free to open an issue!

### More about Modin 

> Visit the complete documentation on readthedocs: https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the complete documentation on Modin, visit our [ReadTheDocs](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) page.
```

#### Scale your pandas workflow by changing a single line of code.

> **Note: In local mode (without a cluster), Modin will create and manage a local (Dask or Ray) cluster for the execution.**

Reviewer 2: nit: the subheader and note are again a bit confusing to the eye/messy here.

Author: Do you think the Note's should be bolded? I think I can remove the bold?

> To use Modin, you do not need to know how many cores your system has and you do not need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Modin, you do not need to specify how to distribute the data, or even know how many 
cores your system has. In fact, you can continue using your previous 
```

Reviewer 2: grammar fix -- Last sentence missing "with": 
```
Once you've changed your import statement, you're ready to use Modin just like
you would with pandas!
```

This can also be done within a notebook/interpreter before you import Modin:

```python

> import modin.pandas as pd

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

In pandas, you are only able to use one core at a time when you are doing computation of
any kind. With Modin, you are able to use all of the CPU cores on your machine. Even with a
traditionally synchronous task like `read_csv`, we see large speedups by efficiently
distributing the work across your entire machine.

```python
import modin.pandas as pd

df = pd.read_csv("my_dataset.csv")
```

#### Modin is a DataFrame designed for datasets from 1MB to 1TB+

Often data scientists have to switch between different tools
for operating on datasets of different sizes. Processing large dataframes with pandas
is slow, and pandas does not support working with dataframes that are too large to fit
into the available memory. As a result, pandas workflows that work well
for prototyping on a few MBs of data do not scale to tens or hundreds of GBs (depending on the size
of your machine). Modin supports operating on data that does not fit in memory, so that you can comfortably
work with hundreds of GBs without worrying about substantial slowdown or memory errors.
With [cluster](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/using_modin/using_modin_cluster.html)

> and [out of core](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/out_of_core.html)

Reviewer 3: The link to out of core page doesn't work.

import modin.pandas as pd
```

> Check [this Modin docs section](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/using_omnisci.html) for Omnisci engine setup.

Reviewer 3: The note below should be corrected.
from
```
**Note: You should not change the engine after you have imported Modin as it will result in undefined behavior**
```
to
```
**Note: You should not change the engine after your first operation with Modin as it will result in undefined behavior**
```

**Note: You should not change the engine after you have imported Modin as it will result in undefined behavior**

#### Which engine should I use?

> If you are on Windows, you must use Dask as Ray does not support Windows. If you are on

Reviewer 3: Ray supports Windows. The sentence should be corrected.

<img align="right" style="display:inline;" height="350" width="300" src="https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/docs/img/read_csv_benchmark.png?raw=true"></a>

The `modin.pandas` DataFrame is an extremely light-weight parallel DataFrame. 
Modin transparently distributes the data and computation so that you can continue using the same pandas API
while working with more data faster. Because it is so light-weight,
Modin provides speed-ups of up to 4x on a laptop with 4 physical cores.

In pandas, you are only able to use one core at a time when you are doing computation of
any kind. With Modin, you are able to use all of the CPU cores on your machine. Even with a
traditionally synchronous task like `read_csv`, we see large speedups by efficiently
distributing the work across your entire machine.

```python
import modin.pandas as pd

df = pd.read_csv("my_dataset.csv")
```

#### Modin is a DataFrame designed for datasets from 1MB to 1TB+

> Often data scientists have to use different tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Often data scientists have to switch between different tools
```

for operating on datasets of different sizes. Processing large dataframes with pandas
is slow, and pandas does not support working with dataframes that are too large to fit
into the available memory. As a result, pandas workflows that work well
for prototyping on a few MBs of data do not scale to tens or hundreds of GBs (depending on the size
of your machine). Modin supports operating on data that does not fit in memory, so that you can comfortably
work with hundreds of GBs without worrying about substantial slowdown or memory errors.

> With preliminary [cluster](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/using_modin/using_modin_cluster.html)

Reviewer 2: Is this considered preliminary? 

Can this last sentence be merged to a single paragraph with the previous paragraph?

<img align="right" style="display:inline;" height="350" width="300" src="https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/docs/img/read_csv_benchmark.png?raw=true"></a>

The `modin.pandas` DataFrame is an extremely light-weight parallel DataFrame. To see how Modin compares

> to other dataframe systems (namely Dask DataFrame and Koalas), check out

Reviewer 4: nit: delete the sentence "To see how Modin compares..." since it's included in our FAQs, or move it to after the "... while working with more data faster." sentence for better flow.

[this page](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/modin_vs_dask_vs_koalas.html?).
Modin transparently distributes the data and computation so that you can continue using the same pandas API

> while being able to work with more data faster. Because it is so light-weight,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
while working with more data faster. Because it is so light-weight,
```

> ![Architecture](docs/img/modin_architecture.png)

Reviewer 2: nit: This image is a bit huge

```suggestion
<img src="docs/img/modin_architecture.png" alt="Modin's architecture" width="75%"></img>
```

> Visit the [Documentation](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/architecture.html) for

Reviewer 2: I thought this was referring to the overall readthedocs, which is repetitive, but its actually the architecture section. I think we can remove this altogether and just link at the top by saying: 

```
We designed [Modin's architecture](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/architecture.html) to be modular so we can plug in different components as they develop and improve:
```

more information!

**`modin.pandas` is currently under active development. Requests and contributions are welcome!**

### General Resources and Getting Involved

- [Documentation Link](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Modin Examples + Tutorials](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/examples.html)
- [Modin Talks + Blogs](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/examples.html#talks-podcasts)
- [Modin Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/modin-project/shared_invite/zt-yvk5hr3b-f08p_ulbuRWsAfg9rMY3uA)
- [Modin Discourse](https://discuss.modin.org)
- [Modin GitHub Issues Page](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues)
- [Modin FAQs](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/faq.html)
- [Modin Troubleshooting Guide](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/troubleshooting.html)

> - [Modin Paper](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~totemtang/paper/Modin.pdf)

Reviewer 2: This feels very list-ey and if I was a user, I wouldn't want to click on any of these when I skim over this. I'll try to think if there's a better organization. Thoughts welcome!

Author: Yeah, I was modeling off of the Tensorflow README (https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow) and PyTorch does something similar but hopefully the list is short enough that people will find it easy enough to browse. +1 to anyone having ideas :)

Reviewer 2: Thanks @naren-ponder, the tensorflow and pytorch links are really helpful. What about something like this? I added a few links and reorganized them into sections.

```
### Other Resources

#### Getting Started with Modin

- [Documentation](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [10-min Quickstart Guide](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/quickstart.html)
- [Examples and Tutorials](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/examples.html)
- [Videos and Blogposts](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/examples.html#talks-podcasts)

#### Modin Community

- [Slack](https://modin.org/slack.html)
- [Discourse](https://discuss.modin.org)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/modin_project)
- [Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/g/modin-dev)
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues)
- [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/modin)

#### Learn More about Modin

- [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/faq.html)
- [Troubleshooting Guide](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/troubleshooting.html)
- [Development Guide](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/index.html)
- Modin is built on many years of research and development at UC Berkeley. Check out these selected paper to learn more about how Modin works:
  - [Flexible Rule-Based Decomposition and Metadata Independence in Modin](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~totemtang/paper/Modin.pdf) (VLDB 2021)
  - [Dataframe Systems: Theory, Architecture, and Implementation](https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Pubs/TechRpts/2021/EECS-2021-193.pdf) (PhD Dissertation 2021)
  - [Towards Scalable Dataframe Systems](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.00888.pdf) (VLDB 2020)

#### Getting Involved

***`modin.pandas` is currently under active development. Requests and contributions are welcome!***

For more information on how to contribute to Modin, check out the
[Modin Contribution Guide](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/contributing.html).
```

Author: @dorisjlee This looks awesome!! Thanks for the suggestion :)

> For more information on how to contribute to Modin, check out the 

Reviewer 2: Why is the contribution guide separate from everything else?

Author: Moved the modin.pandas is currently under active development bold and italic part down here to connect the two.

<img align="right" style="display:inline;" height="350" width="300" src="https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/docs/img/read_csv_benchmark.png?raw=true"></a>

The `modin.pandas` DataFrame is an extremely light-weight parallel DataFrame. Modin 
transparently distributes the data and computation so that you can continue using the same pandas API

> while being able to work with more data faster. Because it is so light-weight, 

Author: We already mention it is lightweight previously so it seems somewhat repetitive to me just to add that it is more robust. We also have the comparison of Modin vs. other dataframe systems below so figured it wasn't necessary to comment on it here.

> while being able to work with more data faster. Because it is so light-weight, 

Reviewer 4: I think it's important that modin is lightweight in comparison to other dataframe systems. Perhaps you could add a note:

The `modin.pandas` DataFrame is an extremely light-weight parallel DataFrame. **See how modin compares to other dataframe systems**(link to comparison). Modin transparently distributes the data..."

Modin provides speed-ups of up to 4x on a laptop with 4 physical cores.

In pandas, you are only able to use one core at a time when you are doing computation of
any kind. With Modin, you are able to use all of the CPU cores on your machine. Even in a

> traditionally synchronous task like `read_csv`, we see large gains by efficiently 

Reviewer 4: suggestion - replace large gains with something like speedups.

Even with a typically synchronous task like `read_csv`, we see large speedups by distributing the work across your entire machine.

#### Modin is a DataFrame designed for datasets from 1MB to 1TB+ 

We have focused heavily on bridging the solutions between DataFrames for small data 

> (e.g. pandas) and large data. Often data scientists have to use different tools 

Reviewer 5: "bridging the solutions between" is incorrect usage of "bridge" and I don't think we mean to say that there are other "solutions between". I suggest replacing the first sentence with

```
We have focused heavily on bridging the gap between Dataframes for small data
(e.g. regular pandas) and for large data (e.g. Dask and Vaex?? does Vaex have overhead? Or are we thinking of e.g. using Spark. but Spark doesn't usually have dataframes, except for things like [Pandas on Spark](https://databricks.com/blog/2021/10/04/pandas-api-on-upcoming-apache-spark-3-2.html)).
```

note that I'm not sure which solutions for large data to include here.

Author: @devin-petersohn Any thoughts here?

Reviewer 6: Agree with @mvashishtha

Author: I actually prefer on this particular part to drop the first sentence entirely and starting with "Often data scientists...". I think that giving an example of Dataframe for large data with Dask/Vaex/Pandas on Spark gives those solutions free advertising and we already have a section for comparing Dask Dataframe vs. Koalas vs. Modin in the FAQ. @mvashishtha thoughts?

Reviewer 5: I like that idea! Your rationale sounds good.

> for operating on datasets of different sizes. This is not only because processing large 
> dataframes is slow, but also pandas does not support working with dataframes that don't fit 
> into the available memory. As a result, pandas workflows that work well 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
for operating on datasets of different sizes. Processing large datasets with pandas is slow, and pandas does not support working with dataframes that are too large to fit into the available memory. As a result, pandas workflows that work well 
```

I don't see a need to emphasize "not only." Modin should help with both problems.

for prototyping on a few MBs of data do not scale to tens or hundreds of GBs (depending on the size 
of your machine). Modin supports operating on data that does not fit in memory, so that you can comfortably 
work with hundreds of GBs without worrying about substantial slowdown or memory errors. 

> With preliminary [cluster](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/using_modin.html?#using-modin-on-a-cluster-experimental)

Reviewer 3: I would suggest replacing this link to cluster usage to using_modin_cluster page after #3965 is merged.

Reviewer 6: +1, it is merged now

![Architecture](docs/img/modin_architecture.png)

Visit the [Documentation](https://modin.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/architecture.html) for

> more information, and checkout [the difference between Modin and Dask DataFrame!](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/docs/modin_vs_dask.md).

Author: I propose moving this information about the difference between Modin and Dask DataFrame to the FAQ and removing it from the README. Thoughts?

Author: Should probably link this once that PR is merged: https://modin--3779.org.readthedocs.build/en/3779/getting_started/modin_vs_dask_vs_koalas.html

Reviewer 2: Agreed, the README has a bit too much info now, so taking out this would be helpful.

> more information, and check out [the difference between Modin and Dask DataFrame!](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/docs/modin_vs_dask.md).

Reviewer 3: The link to Modin paper should be replaced to a newer one - https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~totemtang/paper/Modin.pdf. Under More information and Getting Involved section.

> more information, and check out [the difference between Modin and Dask DataFrame!](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/docs/modin_vs_dask.md).

Reviewer 3: This link doesn't work.
